<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>

<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en" class="is-multilingual">
<head>
    <title>Chapters synopsis 分章提要</title>
  <script type="text/javascript" src="../Misc/Script1.js"></script>
  <link href="../Styles/local.css" type="text/css" rel="stylesheet"/>

</head>

<body>
<div id="langSwitch">
  <button onclick="switchLang('zh-hans')">简体中文</button>
  <button onclick="switchLang('en')" data-lang="en">English</button>
  <button onclick="switchLang('all')">All</button>
</div>

<h1><span lang="zh-hans">分章提要</span><span lang="en">Chapter synopsis</span></h1>

<p><a href="01.xhtml"><span lang="zh-hans">第一章</span><span lang="en">Chapter 1</span></a></p>

<p lang="zh-hans">社会的基本划分是有权和无权；从组织角度可描述为“权组织+被组织”；权力的强制性主要不是出于强力，而是出于组织的程序性沟通。</p>
<p lang="en">The basic division of society is between have power and powerlessness. From an organizational perspective, this can be described as “the power organization + the been organized”. The coercion of power is not primarily from force, but from the procedural communication of the organization.</p>

<p><a href="02.xhtml"><span lang="zh-hans">第二章</span><span lang="en">Chapter 2</span></a></p>


<p lang="zh-hans">社会是一种沟通结构。因为直接沟通的范围有限，大型社会需由多级“沟通枢纽”架设间接沟通的结构。权力源自沟通。“沟通枢纽”对沟通的掌握即是权力。</p>
<p lang="en">Society is a communication structure. Because direct communication has a limited scope, large-scale society needs to set up an indirect communication structure through multiple levels of “communication hubs”. Power comes from communication. The control of communication by the “communication hubs” is power.</p>

<p><a href="03.xhtml"><span lang="zh-hans">第三章</span><span lang="en">Chapter 3</span></a></p>

<p lang="zh-hans">本应服务于民众的间接沟通结构，利用对沟通的掌控，不容民众对其沟通，只按自身需要沟通民众，权力由此与民众分离，为当权者私有，沟通结构异化为权组织，民众成为被组织的无权者。</p>
<p lang="en">The indirect communication structure that is supposed to serve the people, using the control of communication, does not allow the people to communicate with them, and only communicates with the people according to their own needs, so that power is separated from the people and power is private of them, and the communication structure is alienated into a power organization, and the people become the powerlessness who are organized.</p>

<p><a href="04.xhtml"><span lang="zh-hans">第四章</span><span lang="en">Chapter 4</span></a></p>

<p lang="zh-hans">追求个人意志的满足是人的基本性质，正义则是所有社会成员对这种追求的平等节制——即不扭曲他人的个人意志。只有自组织状态下个人意志的向量求和能实现这种平等的节制。</p>
<p lang="en">The pursuit of the satisfaction of the individual will is the basic nature of the human being, and justice is the equal restraint of all members of society on this pursuit, that is, without distorting the individual will of others. Only the vector summation of individual will in a self-organization state can achieve this kind of equal restraint or constraint.</p>

<p><a href="05.xhtml"><span lang="zh-hans">第五章</span><span lang="en">Chapter 5</span></a></p>

<p lang="zh-hans">社会意志是所有社会成员个人意志的向量和。社会的基本性质是追求社会意志的满足。但迄今尚无社会意志实现向量求和的结构，只有权力意志主导的数量求和结构。社会意志因此总是被权力意志扭曲。</p>
<p lang="en">The societal will is the vector sum of the individual wills of all social members. The basic nature of society is the pursuit of the satisfaction of the will of society. However, so far, there is no structure for the societal will to achieve vector summation, only a quantitative summation structure dominated by the will of power. The will of society is thus always distorted by the will of power.</p>

<p><a href="06.xhtml"><span lang="zh-hans">第六章</span><span lang="en">Chapter 6</span></a></p>

<p lang="zh-hans">被扭曲的社会意志或是通过对权力意志施加压力迫使权力进行调整，或是通过支持革命以强力更新权力，由新权力体现社会意志。这使得社会意志在总体上决定社会发展走向，然而无论压力调整还是强力更新都存在滞后。</p>
<p lang="en">The distorted societal will either forces to adjust by exerting pressure on the will to power, or forcefully renews power by supporting revolutions, with the new power embodying the societal will. This allows the societal will to determine the direction of societal development in general, but there is a lag in both pressure for adjustment and forceful renewal.</p>

<p><a href="07.xhtml"><span lang="zh-hans">第七章</span><span lang="en">Chapter 7</span></a></p>

<p lang="zh-hans">代议制使得权力更新不再通过强力，但仍然是数量求和结构。权力意志可通过操纵代议制的数量求和扭曲社会意志；反之数量和的压力又会迫使代议制纵容消费主义和民族主义。</p>
<p lang="en">Representative democracy eliminates the need for force in power renewal but still operates within a structure based on the scalar summation. Power will can distort societal will by manipulating the scalar summation within the representative system. Conversely, the pressure of the scalar sum can compel the representative system to tolerate consumerism and nationalism.</p>

<p><a href="08.xhtml"><span lang="zh-hans">第八章</span><span lang="en">Chapter 8</span></a></p>

<p lang="zh-hans">是否能让社会意志无需通过压力和强力，即可与权力意志无阻碍地沟通，从而使得社会意志无滞后地随时实现？</p>
<p lang="en">Is it possible to let societal will communicate with the will of power without any obstruction, without the need of pressure and force, thus allowing societal will to be realized without lag?</p>

<p><a href="09.xhtml"><span lang="zh-hans">第九章</span><span lang="en">Chapter 9</span></a></p>


<p lang="zh-hans">个人意志向量求和的方法是在经验范围随时选举“和载体”。“和载体”再以递进的层块不断求出更大的向量分和，最终求出社会意志。</p>
<p lang="en">The method of vector summation of individual will is to elect “sum carrier” at any time within the empirical range. The “sum carrier” then continuously calculate larger vector partial sums in recursive hierarchical layers, and finally derive the societal will.</p>

<p><a href="10.xhtml"><span lang="zh-hans">第十章</span><span lang="en">Chapter 10</span></a></p>

<p lang="zh-hans">八条基本规则形成自动运转和自我调节机制，可生长出递进自组织社会。</p>
<p lang="en">The eight fundamental rules establish an automatic operation and self-regulation mechanism, capable of giving rise to a recursive self-organization society.</p>

<p><a href="11.xhtml"><span lang="zh-hans">第十一章</span><span lang="en">Chapter 11</span></a></p>

<p lang="zh-hans">递进自组织让权力从统治回归沟通，实现逐层提炼理性的“递进自治—递进联邦”。</p>
<p lang="en">Recursive self-organization allows power to shift from domination back to communication, achieving a stepwise refinement of rationality through "recursive self-governance - recursive federation".</p>

<p><a href="12.xhtml"><span lang="zh-hans">第十二章</span><span lang="en">Chapter 12</span></a></p>

<p lang="zh-hans">递进自组织可以解决代议制难以解决的Vetocracy（否决政治）、民族主义、消费主义。</p>
<p lang="en">Recursive self-organization can solve the problems that is impossible to solve for the representative democracy, such as vetocracy(veto politics), nationalism, and consumerism.</p>

<p><a href="13.xhtml"><span lang="zh-hans">第十三章</span><span lang="en">Chapter 13</span></a></p>

<p lang="zh-hans">用递进自组织的方法实现递进自组织本身，形成人类社会按照社会意志驶向未来的自动车。</p>
<p lang="en">Using the method of recursive self-organizing to achieve recursive self-organization itself, forming an automatic car for human society to drive towards the future according to societal will.</p>
</body>
</html>
