<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>

<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en" class="is-multilingual">
<head>
    <title>Abstract 简介</title>
  <script type="text/javascript" src="../Misc/Script1.js"></script>
  <link href="../Styles/local.css" type="text/css" rel="stylesheet"/>

</head>

<body>
<div id="langSwitch">
  <button onclick="switchLang('zh-hans')">简体中文</button>
  <button onclick="switchLang('en')" data-lang="en">English</button>
  <button onclick="switchLang('all')">All</button>
</div>

<h1><span lang="zh-hans">权民一体论</span><span lang="en">The Unity of Power and People</span></h1>

<p><span lang="zh-hans">递进自组织社会</span><span lang="en">Recursive self-organizing society</span></p>
<p><span lang="zh-hans">【摘要】</span><span lang="en">Abstract</span></p>

<p lang="zh-hans">大规模社会离不开间接沟通。本文将间接沟通结构对沟通的掌控视为权力。当间接沟通的结构不容民众对其沟通，只按自身需要沟通民众时，权力便与民众分离，社会分成有权和无权二元，沟通枢纽成为当权者，权力为其私有。以往的政治思想大都默认权力是一种独立存在，其与民众的分离被当作天然和必然，只考虑如何对其制约与驯化。本文则把消除权力与民众的分离视为解决问题的根本，并提出实现权民一体的操作方法——递进自组织，让权力重归沟通。</p>
<p lang="en">Large-scale society cannot do without indirect communication. This book regards the control of communication by the structure of indirect communication as power. When the structure of indirect communication does not allow the people to communicate with it, and only communicates with the people according to its own needs, power is separated from the people, and society is divided into a binary of power and powerlessness, and the communication hub becomes the ruler, and power is private of them. Most of the previous political thoughts assumed that power is an independent existence, and its separation from the people was taken as natural and inevitable, only considering how to restrain and tame it. This book regards eliminating the separation of power and the people as the fundamental solution to the problem, and proposes an operational method to achieve the unity of power and the people, which is "Recursive Self-Organization", so that return power back to communication.</p>
</body>
</html>