<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>

<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en" class="is-multilingual">
<head>
  <title>Friendly reminder 友情提示</title>
  <script type="text/javascript" src="../Misc/Script1.js"></script>
  <link href="../Styles/local.css" type="text/css" rel="stylesheet"/>

</head>

<body>
<div id="langSwitch">
  <button onclick="switchLang('zh-hant')">繁體中文</button>
  <button onclick="switchLang('zh-hans')">简体中文</button>
  <button onclick="switchLang('en')">English</button>
  <button onclick="switchLang('all')">All</button>
</div>

<h1><span lang="zh-hans">友情提示</span><span lang="en">Friendly reminder</span></h1>


<p lang="zh-hans">如果您在电脑上阅读本书，推荐使用<a href="https://calibre-ebook.com/">calibre</a>，或者在浏览器使用<a href="https://epub-reader.online/#">neat reader</a>进行在线阅读。</p>

<p lang="en">If you are reading this book on a computer, it is recommended to use <a href="https://calibre-ebook.com/">calibre</a>, or use <a href="https://epub-reader.online/#">neat reader</a> in your browser to read it online.</p>



<p lang="zh-hans">本电子书为个人制作，提供给无法购买原版书籍的人阅读，有能力的话请支持正版。</p>
<p lang="en">This e-book is for personal production, for people who are unable to buy the original book to read, if you have the ability, please support the genuine version.</p>

<p lang="zh-hans">如果你想阅读更多王力雄的文章，请关注youtube上王力雄创建的频道<a href="https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCL3-ObG85Ugm8Zx-tnEKCkw">絕地今書</a>。</p>
<p lang="en">If you want to read more of Wang's articles, follow Wang's channel, @jidaibooks, on YouTube.</p>

<hr/>
<p lang="zh-hant">以下部分是絕地今書频道的官方说明:</p>
<p lang="en">The following section is the official description of the @jidaibooks Channel:</p>

<p lang="zh-hant">【絕地今書】頻道由現居北京的作家王力雄創建。</p>
<p lang="en">The @jidaibooks channel was founded by Wang Lixiong, a writer who now lives in Beijing.</p>

<p lang="zh-hant">YouTube或Facebook搜索「絕地今書」或登錄：youtube.com/c/jidaibooks/；facebook.com/jidaibooks/</p>
<p lang="en">Search for "絕地今書" on YouTube or Facebook or log in: youtube.com/c/jidaibooks/;facebook.com/jidaibooks/</p>

  <p lang="zh-hant">王力雄於1991年出版的政治寓言小說《黃禍》被《亞洲周刊》列為二十世紀一百部最優中文小說的四十一名。該書在全球中文讀者圈廣受歡迎，在中國境內雖是「禁書」，卻以不脛而走的方式成為知識界的熱門話題。但是當王力雄歷時十五年即將完成《黃禍》的姊妹篇《轉世》時，「禁書」的出版生態已發生很大變化，禁書作者難以再用傳統方式獲得生存空間，必須尋求新的出路。</p>
<p lang="en">The political allegory novel “<cite>The Yellow Peril</cite>” by Wang Lixiong, published in 1991, was ranked 41st among the 100 best Chinese novels of the 20th century by “Asia Weekly”. The book was widely popular among global Chinese readers, and although it was a “banned book” in mainland China, it became a hot topic among the intellectuals by word of mouth. However, when Wang Lixiong spent 15 years to complete the sister book of “<cite>The Yellow Peril</cite>”, “<cite>Reincarnation</cite>”, the publishing ecology of “banned books” had changed a lot, and the banned book authors could no longer survive in the traditional way, and had to seek new ways out.</p>

<p lang="zh-hant">王力雄將在《轉世》正式出版前，以親口朗讀書稿作為《轉世》與讀者見面的方式，分期讀完全部三十八萬字書稿，並介紹《轉世》將於今後續推出的電子書與實體書。</p>
<p lang="en">Before the official publication of "Reincarnation", Wang Lixiong will read the manuscript aloud as a way for "Reincarnation" to meet readers, read all the 380,000-word manuscripts in installments, and introduce the e-books and physical books that "<cite>Reincarnation</cite>" will be released in the future.</p>

  <p lang="zh-hant">【絕地今書】頻道的內容除了由作家本人朗讀自己的著作或以其他方式來發佈作品外，同時鏈接可發起話題、討論話題並進行電子書及其他作品傳播的網站，以期盡可能與讀者進行互動。</p>
<p lang="en">In addition to the content of the jidaibooks Channel, which is read by the writers themselves or published in other ways, the content of the jidaibooks Channel also links to websites that can initiate topics, discuss topics, and distribute e-books and other works in order to interact with readers as much as possible.</p>

<p lang="zh-hant">王力雄期待在讀者參與下建立互聯網時代的「自出版、自發行、自傳播」系統，實現禁書寫作在權力和市場夾擊下的突圍。</p>
<p lang="en">Wang Lixiong hopes to establish a “self-publishing, self-distribution, self-propagation” system in the Internet era with the participation of readers, and achieve a breakthrough in banned book writing under the squeeze of power and market.</p>

<p><span lang="zh-hant">【絕地今書討論區】提問 討論 回答</span><span lang="en">“Jidaibooks Discussion Forum” Ask Question, Discuss, Answer</span> https://jidai.today</p>


<p><span lang="zh-hant">【讚賞與回贈】</span><span lang="en">Praise and reward</span> https://jidaibooks.com/donation/</p>


<p><span lang="zh-hant">【絕地今書】【王力雄】【作家講禁書】</span><span lang="en">[JiDaiBooks][Wang Lixiong][Writer Talks Banned Books]</span></p>
</body>
</html>